dob (Docker Odoo Bootstrap)
===========================

YAML based odoo bootstrap within docker. Docker sets up the environment odoo
will be built into, installs Debian and Python packages. The further tooling is
done by the `bootstrap.py` script. See the usage. For a documentation of the
main YAML structure see the `odoo/README.md`.

Usage
-----

Use `-f docker-compose.yaml -f mailhog.yaml` after `docker-compose` if a
mailsink is needed.
```
# To be able to use the git keys of the current user
$ ./setup.sh
# Build, initialization and start up
$ docker-compose build
$ docker-compose run --rm odoo odoo init
$ docker-compose run --rm odoo odoo update
$ docker-compose up
```

Configuration notes
-------------------
Minimal `.env` configuration file is generated by `setup.sh`. For production
it's recommended to set the value of `DB_VERSION` to a recent/supported one of
postgresql. Best is to use major versions with `-alpine` suffix.

Docker
------

* `docker-compose build`
  - Build or rebuild the images

* `docker-compose up [options] [container]`
  - Create and start the containers

* `docker-compose stop [options] [container]`
  - Stop running containers without removing them

* `docker-compose down`
  - Stop containers and remove created containers, networks, volumes, and images

* `docker-compose kill`
  - Kill containers

* `docker-compose exec <container> <command> [args]`
  - Execute the command in the running container
  - File paths must specify a file within the container
  - See below for the commands

* `docker-compose run --rm <container> <command> [args]`
  - Start a new container, execute the command and remove the container afterwards
  - File paths must specify a file within the container
  - See below for the commands

Available commands
------------------

* `odoo`
  - Generic management tool for Odoo
  - See --help for more information

* `odoo init [options]`
  - Generation of configuration file `etc/odoo.cfg`
  - Checking out of the repositories
  - Initial generation of versions.txt file
    + Can aggregate the requirements.txt file of all repositories
    + Experimental because of specifier

* `odoo freeze`
  - Freeze the python packages into the versions.txt

* `odoo config`
  - Compile the configuration and show the merged result

* `odoo shell [options]`
  - Start an odoo shell passing the additional parameter

* `odoo test [options]`
  - Start unittests passing the given parameter
  - Runs only on files specified `odoo:addons_path`
  - Coverage report can be created if `bootstrap:coverage` is set

* `odoo flake8 [options]`
  - Start flake8 tests passing the given parameter
  - Runs only on files specified `odoo:addons_path`

* `odoo eslint [options]`
  - Start eslint tests passing the given parameter
  - Runs only on files specified in `odoo:addons_path`

* `odoo pylint [options]`
  - Start pylint tests passing the given parameter
  - Runs only on files specified `odoo:addons_path`

* `odoo update [options] [modules]`
  - Generation of configuration file `etc/odoo.cfg`
  - Initialize the database
  - Run `pre_install.py` script
  - Install all not installed modules
  - Run `pre_update.py` script
  - Updates all/changed/listed modules
  - Run `post_update.py` script
  - Update database version

* `odoo run [options]`
  - Start odoo and pass the options directly to Odoo
  - Use `docker-compose up` instead to expose the ports

* `odoo defuse [options]`
  - Defuse/anonymize the database
  - Experimental

* `psql`, `pg_dump`, `pg_restore`, `pg_activity`, `createdb`, `dropdb`
  - Postgres utitilies

Environment variables of `.env`
-------------------------------
 * BOOTSTRAP_MODE .. Environment mode
 * PGPASSWORD .. Required. Postgres password of the database user.
 * DB_VERSION .. Postgres version to use. If not set `latest`
 * ODOO_VERSION .. Odoo version to use with the format `x.0`
 * ODOO_* .. Odoo configuration variables. See `odoo.default.yaml`
 * Ports .. Ports of the hosts. Recommended syntax <ip>:<port>
  - HTTP_PORT .. Regular HTTP port. Default is `127.0.0.1:8069`.
  - HTTP_LONGPOLLING_PORT .. Longpolling port. Default is `127.0.0.1:8072`.
  - MAILHOG_PORT .. HTTP port of the mailsink. Default is `127.0.0.1:8025`.
